# MLPerf Inference Calibration and Quantization Details
**NOTE**: This document is autogenerated from Nvidia's internal documentation. If something is wrong or confusing, please contact NVIDIA.

---

## NVIDIA MLPerf Quantization

Post-training quantization requires a dynamic range for each weight and activation tensor. Quantization is symmetric for both.

### Weights

Dynamic range values are generally per-channel (or per-row for matrix multiply). In a few cases, a per-tensor value is used. We find the maximum absolute value `t` of any element of the channel or tensor, and the dynamic range is then `[-t,t]`.

### Activations

For each activation tensor, we use a distinct dynamic range that applies across the entire tensor. We invoke the model on a set of representative inputs in FP32 precision, and create a per-tensor histogram of absolute values. The histogram initially uses 1024 equal-range bins whose range is set by the initial image batch, but dynamically resizes by doubling the number of bins as necessary to accommodate the range of subsequent batches. Call this histogram, which has [`power-of-2`] bins, where all data elements are guaranteed to fall into one of the bins, the "starting histogram". We then apply one of two methods, as chosen by the application.

- Fractional: we compute some user-specified fraction (1, or very close to 1) of the maximum absolute value of the tensor.
- Entropy: for each bin B in the starting histogram, we compute a divergence value as follows:
    - Create a truncated histogram where each bin has the same range and count as the original, except that all elements in bins beyond B are considered to be in B, and all bins beyond B are removed.
    - Create a coarse histogram by discretizing the truncated histogram into 127 bins of equal range between 0 and the midpoint of B, placing all elements in the final bin of the truncated histogram into the final bin of the coarse histogram.
    - Compute the KL-divergence between the distributions represented by the coarse histogram and the truncated histogram.
    - The dynamic range chosen is the center of the bin which minimizes divergence.

### Additional Details

A number of minor modifications are applied to this basic algorithm, including discarding the first bin in the histogram (which typically contains a huge number of noise activations) immediately after it has been built how empty bins are treated when computing divergence. For some operations which are not expected to change dynamic range (e.g. max-pooling, concatenation) we propagate dynamic range from the output to the input(s).

### Quantization in Plugins

NVIDIA's closed division submissions primarily use TensorRT, which implements the scheme described above. Where plugins are used, weight quantization is performed as described above, and activation quantization uses dynamic range values computed using TensorRT on the original network. The plugins access these values through TensorRT's calibration cache.

### Quantization of DLRMv2 Embedding Tables

We scaled and quantized the DLRMv2 embedding tables by mapping the maximum absolute values of each embedding table to 127.5.

### FP8 Quantization

Some submissions use FP8 if the NVIDIA accelerator supports that feature. Quantization details for such submissions:

All quantization (including weight quantization) is symmetric, per-tensor.

The dynamic range for each tensor is defined to be the 99.9 percentile value observed in the values of that tensor when the model is executed in FP32 on the calibration dataset. For a tensor with dynamic range dr, the quantized value x_q is computed from the unquantized value x as:

```
x_q = round(clip(x / dr * m, -m, m))
```
where m is max of FP8 format, in this case 448, and ties are rounded to even.

When quantizing BERT, the following tensors are quantized in each encoder block.

- Linear layer inputs and weights
- Q, K, V input to fMHA
- gelu input
- matmul inputs and weights
- residual add inputs

When quantizing GPTJ, the following tensors are quantized in each decoder.

- Linear (including dense and QKV linear) layer inputs and weights
- Attention: Q, K inputs after RoPE
- MLP Layer inputs and weights
- KV Cache entries

When quantizing Llama2-70B, the following tensors are quantized in each decoder.

- Linear (including dense and QKV linear) layer inputs and weights
- Attention: Q, K inputs after RoPE, and V inputs
- MLP Layer inputs and weights
- KV Cache entries

When quantizing the Mixtral-8x7B-instruct model, the following tensors are quantized in each decoder.

- Selected linear layers* (including dense and QKV linear) inputs and weights for transformer layer.
- Attention: Q, K inputs after RoPE, and V inputs
- Expert MLP inputs and weights, excluding the router
- KV Cache entries

Note: *the quantization is done through NVIDIA ModelOpt, applied based on ModelOpt heuristic search.

### SDXL Quantization Details

The quantization is done through NVIDIA model optimizer. Quantization code can be found under `closed/ConnectTechInc/code/stable-diffusion-xl/modelopt`

### UNet

SDXL datacenter submissions uses fp8-fp16 mixed precision inference for UNet. The following components of the UNet are quantized:

- Q, K, V linears inputs and weights to attentions
- Attention matmul inputs and weights
- FC_out linears inputs and weights
- FFN linears of the transformer inputs and weights
- Non-shortcut convolutions in resblocks*

Note: applied selectively based on accuracy impact

SDXL jetson submissions uses int8-fp16 mixed precision inference for UNet. The following components of the UNet are quantized:

- Q, K, V linears inputs and weights to attentions
- FFN linears of the transformer inputs and weights
- Non-shortcut convolutions in resblocks

### VAE

SDXL datacenter submissions uses int8-fp32 mixed precision inference for VAE. The following components of the VAE are quantized:

- Convolution layers in up_blocks.0, up_blocks.1, up_blocks.2.resnets.0

### Quantization in the Open Division Submissions

If applicable, for Open Division submissions, quantization details are in the READMEs attached to each individual Open Division submission.
